# MshPRT_v1.1-561-604


Mesh Protocol / Specification The PB-ADV bearer allows provisioning of an unprovisioned device by using an advertising bearer.

The PB-GATT bearer allows provisioning of an unprovisioned device by using the Mesh Provisioning Service.

The PB-Remote bearer allows a Provisioner that is outside immediate radio range of an unprovisioned device to communicate with a node supporting the Remote Provisioning Server model that is within immediate radio range of the unprovisioned device and to use that node as a retransmitter to communicate with the unprovisioned device using PB-ADV or PB-GATT.

This allows a Provisioner to provision unprovisioned devices using nodes of the mesh network.

Figure 5.2 illustrates this process when the Remote Provisioning Server uses PB-ADV to provision an unprovisioned device.

Provisioner Mesh node(s) PB-Remote Provisioning Client Mesh layers Mesh Relay Mesh layers Bluetooth LE Bluetooth LE Mesh node within immediate radio range of the unprovisioned device PB-Remote Provisioning Server Unprovisioned device PB-ADV Provisioning Client PB-ADV Provisioning Server Mesh layers Bluetooth LE Bluetooth LE Bluetooth LE Figure 5.2: Devices participating in provisioning using PB-Remote and PB-ADV The Provisioner may use the Remote Provisioning Server (see Section 4.4.5) to identify unprovisioned devices within immediate radio range of the server.

As a final step, the Provisioner closes the provisioning bearer.

Some provisioning bearers require that a close reason be provided when closing the bearer.

The close reason is provided by the provisioning protocol.

When the provisioning bearer is closed by the peer device, the close reason is provided to the provisioning protocol.

5.1 Endianness Unless stated otherwise, all multiple-octet numeric values in this layer shall be big-endian, as described in Section 3.1.1.1.

5.2 Provisioning bearer layer A provisioning bearer layer enables the transport of Provisioning PDUs between a Provisioner and an unprovisioned device.

Three provisioning bearers are defined: • PB-ADV (see Section 5.2.1) • PB-GATT (see Section 5.2.2) • PB-Remote (see Section 5.2.3) Six provisioning roles are defined: • PB-ADV Client • PB-ADV Server • PB-GATT Client Page 561 of 867 * • PB-GATT Server • PB-Remote Client • PB-Remote Server Mesh Protocol / Specification An unprovisioned device may support the PB-ADV Server role and may support the PB-GATT Server role.

An unprovisioned device should support both the PB-ADV Server role and the PB-GATT Server role.

A Provisioner shall support either the PB-ADV Client role or PB-GATT Client role, or both roles.

If the Provisioner supports only one role, the Provisioner should support the PB-ADV Client role.

The Provisioner may also support the PB-Remote Client role.

A node may support the PB-Remote Server role.

5.2.1 PB-ADV PB-ADV is a provisioning bearer used to provision an unprovisioned device using Generic Provisioning PDUs (see Section 5.3) over the advertising channels.

The provisioning mechanism is session based.

An unprovisioned device shall support only one session at a time.

There is no such limitation for a Provisioner.

A session is established using the Link Establishment procedure (see Section 5.3.2).

The PB-ADV provisioning bearer requires a reason when closing the link and provides a reason when the link is closed.

When PB-ADV is used, the Provisioner shall use the PB-ADV Client role and the unprovisioned device shall use the PB-ADV Server role.

The PB-ADV bearer is used for transmitting Generic Provisioning PDUs.

The PB-ADV bearer maximum transmission unit (MTU) size is 24 octets.

When using PB-ADV, a Generic Provisioning PDU shall be sent using the PB-ADV AD type identified by <<PB-ADV>>, as defined in [4].

A Provisioner and an unprovisioned device supporting PB-ADV should perform passive scanning with a duty cycle as close to 100 percent as possible in order to avoid missing any incoming PB-ADV PDUs.

The PB-ADV AD type contains a PB-ADV PDU field.

The format of the PB-ADV AD type is defined in Table 5.1.

Field Length AD Type PB-ADV PDU Size (octets) Description Req.

1 1 Length of the AD Type and PB-ADV PDU fields <<PB-ADV>> M M variable PB-ADV PDU M Table 5.1: PB-ADV AD type Any advertising data that includes the PB-ADV AD type shall use ADV_NONCONN_IND PDUs.

If a node receives a PB-ADV AD type in a PDU type different from ADV_NONCONN_IND, the message shall be ignored.

Page 562 of 867 The format of the PB-ADV PDU field is defined in Table 5.2.

Field Description Mesh Protocol / Specification Size (octets) Req.

Link ID 4 The identifier of a link Transaction Number 1 The number for identifying a transaction Generic Provisioning PDU 1-24 M M Generic Provisioning PDU being transferred M Table 5.2: PB-ADV PDU field format The Link ID is used to identify a link between two devices.

The Transaction Number field contains a one-octet value used to identify each individual Generic Provisioning PDU sent by the device.

When a Provisioning PDU that does not fit in a single PB-ADV PDU is segmented, all segments are sent using the same Transaction Number field value.

When a Provisioning PDU is retransmitted, the Transaction Number field is not changed.

Transport-specific messages are defined to establish and terminate the link between two devices (see Section 5.3.1.4).

When the link is opened, the Provisioner and the unprovisioned device shall start the link timer from the initial value set to 60 seconds.

When the link timer expires, the Provisioner and the unprovisioned device shall close the link.

When the unprovisioned device receives any Provisioning PDU or a Link Close message, then the unprovisioned device shall stop the link timer.

The Generic Provisioning PDU field format is defined in Section 5.3.

The following rules shall be implemented when sending a PB-ADV PDU: • • When the Generic Provisioning PDU field contains a Provisioning Bearer Control PDU, the Transaction Number field shall be set to 0 and ignored upon reception.

When the PB-ADV Client is sending a Provisioning PDU for the first time over an open provisioning link, it shall start with a Transaction Number field value of 0x00.

The PB-ADV Client shall increment the field value by 1 for each new Provisioning PDU it is sending for the duration of the provisioning link.

If the field value has reached Ox7F, it shall wrap to 0x00 on sending the next Provisioning PDU.

When the PB-ADV Server is sending a Provisioning PDU for the first time over an open provisioning link, it shall start with a Transaction Number field value of 0x80.

The PB-ADV Server shall increment the field value by 1 for each new Provisioning PDU it is sending for the duration of the provisioning link.

If the field value has reached OxFF, it shall wrap to 0x80 on sending the next Provisioning PDU.

When a PB-ADV Server is receiving a Provisioning PDU, it shall set the Transaction Number field to the value of the Transaction Number field of the PB-ADV PDUs being received during the transaction.

When a PB-ADV Server is sending a Transaction Acknowledgement PDU, the Transaction Number field shall be set to the value of the Transaction Number field of the PB-ADV PDUs transporting the Provisioning PDU being acknowledged.

Page 563 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification 5.2.2 PB-GATT PB-GATT is a provisioning bearer used to provision an unprovisioned device using Proxy PDUs (see Section 6.3) to encapsulate Provisioning PDUs (see Section 5.4) within the Mesh Provisioning Service (see Section 7.1).

PB-GATT is provided for support when a Provisioner does not support PB-ADV due to limitations of the application interfaces.

The PB-GATT Server shall use the Provisioning Server role (see Section 6.2.2) and the PB-GATT Client shall use the Provisioning Client role (see Section 6.2.2).

When PB-GATT is used, the Provisioner shall use the PB-GATT Client role and the unprovisioned device shall use the PB-GATT Server role.

To enable very low power operation for the PB-GATT Server and allow the PB-GATT Server to calculate the Diffie-Hellman shared secret without requiring the energy to maintain an idle link, the connection interval for the connection between a PB-GATT Client and a PB-GATT Server should be between 250 and 1,000 milliseconds.

The PB-GATT Server shall be able to receive a single Proxy PDU (see Section 6.3) in a single Write Command ATT PDU.

The PB-GATT Server shall use a single Handle Value Notification ATT PDU to send Provisioning PDUs to a PB-GATT Client.

If the negotiated ATT_MTU is smaller than a required Proxy PDU size, the transmission of the Mesh Provisioning Data In and Mesh Provisioning Out characteristics always needs to be fragmented and reassembled.

Each PDU shall be fully reassembled before processing.

The PB-GATT Server shall be able to receive a Proxy PDU in one or several ATT PDUs.

The PB-GATT Server shall use one or several Handle Value Notification ATT PDUs to send a Proxy PDU to the PBGATT Client depending on the size of the message and the negotiated ATT_MTU.

The Mesh Provisioning Data In and Mesh Provisioning Data Out characteristic formats use the Proxy PDU format defined in Section 6.3.1.

The PB-GATT provisioning bearer does not require a reason when closing the link and does not provide a reason when the link is closed.

Figure 5.3 illustrates the provisioning protocol, PB-GATT Server, and Mesh Provisioning Service (see Section 7.1) interactions.

Page 564 of 867 Provisioning PDU processing Mesh Protocol / Specification Provisioning PDU Processing Provisioning (single instance) Notifications behavior PDU Segmentation & Reassembly Error PB-GATT (single instance) PB-GATT (Service) Disconnection behavior Service Advertising Unprovisioned Device Mesh Provisioning Service (single instance) Figure 5.3: Provisioning protocol, PB-GATT Server, and Mesh Provisioning Service interactions The link is opened on a PB-GATT bearer when the PB-GATT Client enables notifications (by writing 0x0001) to the Mesh Provisioning Data Out Client Characteristic Configuration Descriptor after a connection is established (see Section 7.1.3.2.1).

When the link is opened, the Provisioner and the unprovisioned device shall start the link timer from the initial value set to 60 seconds.

When the link timer expires, the Provisioner and the unprovisioned device shall disconnect.

When the Provisioner receives any Provisioning PDU or the connection between the PB-GATT Client and the PB-GATT Server closes, then the Provisioner shall stop the link timer.

When the unprovisioned device receives any Provisioning PDU or the connection between the PB-GATT Client and the PB-GATT Server closes, then the unprovisioned device shall stop the link timer.

5.2.3 PB-Remote The PB-Remote provisioning bearer uses the existing mesh network to provision an unprovisioned device that is not within immediate radio range of the Provisioner.

PB-Remote uses the PB-ADV bearer (see Section 5.2.1) or the PB-GATT bearer (see Section 5.2.2) for the last hop to the unprovisioned device.

PB-Remote uses one of the mesh nodes as a PB-Remote Server to manage the PB-ADV or PB-GATT bearer link on behalf of the Provisioner.

Provisioning should be done using an OOB public key when PB-Remote is used.

Provisioning should not be done using Authentication with No OOB when PB-Remote is used.

When PB-Remote is supported by the Provisioner, the Provisioner shall use the PB-Remote Client role.

When the node supports the Remote Provisioning Server model, the node uses the PB-Remote Server role.

Page 565 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification PB-Remote may also be used to execute the Device Key Refresh procedure (see Section 3.11.8.4) or the Node Address Refresh procedure (see Section 3.11.8.5) or the Node Composition Refresh procedure (see Section 3.11.8.6) between the Provisioner (PB-Remote Client) and the PB-Remote Server.

Multiple instances of the PB-Remote Client can be used by the Provisioner to communicate with many nodes implementing the PB-Remote Server, thus providing the capability to provision many unprovisioned devices at the same time.

The PB-Remote Server can only communicate with one PBRemote Client and can only open one supported provisioning bearer at a time.

Provisioner Mesh node(s) PB-Remote PB-Remote Provisioning Provisioning Client Client Mesh Relay Mesh layers Bluetooth LE Mesh layers Bluetooth LE Mesh node PB-GATT PB-Remote Provisioning Client Provisioning Server PB-ADV Provisioning Client Mesh layers & Bluetooth LE Mesh node PB-Remote Provisioning Server PB-ADV Provisioning Client Mesh layers & Bluetooth LE Figure 5.4: A Provisioner using multiple instances of the PB-Remote Client The PB-Remote provisioning bearer requires a reason when closing the link.

When a PB-Remote Server uses the PB-ADV bearer for the last hop to the device being provisioned and the PB-ADV link is closed, the PB-Remote bearer provides a close reason.

When the PB-Remote Server uses the PB-GATT bearer, the provided reason is not used when closing the link.

The PB-Remote Client is not aware whether the PB-ADV or PB-GATT bearer is used by the PB-Remote Server, so providing a reason is mandatory.

5.2.3.1 PB-Remote Client The PB-Remote Client is a provisioning device that controls the provisioning process.

The PB-Remote Client uses the Remote Provisioning Client model.

The PB-Remote Client can choose which PB-Remote Server device to communicate with, can instruct the PB-Remote Server to start scanning for unprovisioned devices, and can instruct the PB-Remote Server to establish a provisioning link with the chosen unprovisioned device.

After the Provisioning Bearer link is established, the PB-Remote Client runs the provisioning protocol by executing the PB-Remote's Send PDU procedure (see Section 5.2.3.3.3) and the PB-Remote Server executes the PB-Remote's Receive PDU procedure (see Section 5.2.3.3.4).

5.2.3.2 PB-Remote Server The PB-Remote Server is a mesh node that supports the Remote Provisioning Server model.

The PBRemote Server uses the Remote Provisioning Scan procedure to scan for unprovisioned devices.

The server uses the Remote Provisioning Extended Scan procedure to obtain additional information about unprovisioned devices and uses the Provisioning Bearer protocol to establish a Provisioning Bearer link Page 566 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification with an unprovisioned device.

After a Provisioning Bearer link is established, the PB-Remote Server transports Provisioning PDUs between the PB-Remote Client and the connected Provisioning Bearer protocol.

5.2.3.3 PB-Remote procedures The PB-Remote Server may support multiple provisioning bearers, but the server shall use only one provisioning bearer at a time.

Each provisioning bearer defines different steps that are needed to open or close the bearer connection and to send or receive the Provisioning PDU over the bearer.

The subsections 5.2.3.3.1 through 5.2.3.3.4 define common names for these bearer specific steps, thus defining the PB-Remote procedures.

5.2.3.3.1 PB-Remote Open Link procedure The PB-Remote Open Link procedure is used to establish a connection between the PB-Remote Server and the unprovisioned device.

The PB-Remote Server initializes the connection.

The procedure accepts the UUID of the device that the provisioning bearer will be open to as a Device UUID parameter and an optional Timeout parameter.

The Timeout parameter is expressed in seconds and the valid range is from 1 to 60 seconds with one second granularity.

The default value of the Timeout parameter is 10 seconds.

The procedure succeeds or fails depending on the outcome of the opening of a provisioning bearer.

The time before the procedure fails via timeout shall be set to the value of the Timeout parameter.

Table 5.3 defines Success and Fail results for the PB-Remote Open Link procedure.

Provisioning Bearer PB-ADV PB-GATT Procedure Success The Link Establishment procedure (see Section 5.3.2) establishes a session.

The PB-GATT Client successfully opens a connection to the PB-GATT Server (see Section 5.2.2).

Table 5.3: PB-Remote Open Link procedure results 5.2.3.3.2 PB-Remote Close Link procedure Procedure Fail The Link Establishment procedure does not establish a session.

The PB-GATT Client is unable to open a connection to the PB-GATT Server.

The PB-Remote Close Link procedure is used to close a connection between a PB-Remote Server and the unprovisioned device.

The procedure accepts one parameter: Reason.

Some provisioning bearers require the Reason parameter to close the connection.

This procedure always succeeds.

Table 5.4 defines results for the PB-Remote Close Link procedure for each provisioning bearer.

Provisioning bearer PB-ADV PB-GATT Procedure Link close step of the Link Establishment procedure (see Section 5.3.2).

Closing a connection between a PB-GATT Client and a PB-GATT Server (see Section 5.2.2).

Table 5.4: PB-Remote Close Link procedure results 尖 Page 567 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification 5.2.3.3.3 PB-Remote Send PDU procedure The PB-Remote Send PDU procedure is used to send a Provisioning PDU from the PB-Remote Server over an open provisioning bearer to the unprovisioned device.

The procedure accepts one parameter: Provisioning PDU.

The procedure can either succeed or fail depending on the outcome of the Provisioning PDU delivery.

Table 5.5 defines the results for the PB-Remote Send PDU procedure.

Provisioning Procedure Success Bearer PB-ADV PB-GATT The Provisioning PDU is delivered successfully from the Provisioning Server to the unprovisioned device using the PB-ADV provisioning bearer (see Section 5.3.3) The Provisioning PDU is delivered successfully from the PB-Remote Server acting as the PBGATT Client to the unprovisioned device (PBGATT Server) using the PB-GATT bearer (see Section 5.2.2).

Table 5.5: PB-Remote Send PDU procedure 5.2.3.3.4 PB-Remote Receive PDU procedure Procedure Fail The Provisioning PDU delivery from the Provisioning Server to the unprovisioned device using the PBADV bearer fails.

The Provisioning PDU delivery from the PB-Remote Server to the unprovisioned device using the PBGATT bearer fails.

The PB-Remote Receive PDU procedure is used to receive a Provisioning PDU sent from the unprovisioned device to the PB-Remote Server over an open provisioning bearer.

When the PB-ADV bearer is used, the PB-Remote Server uses the PB-ADV Client for this procedure.

When the PB-GATT bearer is used, the server uses the PB-GATT Client.

The procedure either succeeds or fails depending on the outcome of the PDU reception by the PB-Remote Server.

The output of the procedure is the received Provisioning PDU.

The procedure is canceled when the open provisioning bearer is closed.

Table 5.6 defines the results for the PB-Remote Receive PDU procedure.

Page 568 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification Provisioning Bearer PB-ADV PB-GATT Procedure Success The Provisioning PDU is delivered successfully from the unprovisioned device to the PB-Remote Server using the PB-ADV bearer (see Section 5.3.3).

The Provisioning PDU is delivered successfully to the PB-Remote Server acting as the PB-GATT Client from the unprovisioned device (PBGATT Server) using the PB-GATT bearer (see Section 5.2.2).

Table 5.6: PB-Remote Receive PDU procedure 5.3 Generic provisioning layer Procedure Fail The Provisioning PDU delivery from the unprovisioned device to the PBRemote Server using the PB-ADV bearer fails.

The Provisioning PDU delivery from unprovisioned device to the PBRemote Server using the PB-GATT bearer fails.

The generic provisioning layer is responsible for transport of Generic Provisioning PDUs over an unreliable connectionless provisioning bearer.

This layer also defines Generic Provisioning PDUs.

The Generic Provisioning PDU format consists of a Generic Provisioning Control (GPC) field followed by a variable-length Generic Provisioning Payload field as illustrated in Figure 5.5 and defined in Table 5.7.

Generic Provisioning Control octet 0 Generic Provisioning Payload 0 octet n 70 octet n+1 70 octet n+2 '7|¯¯¯¯ Figure 5.5: Generic Provisioning PDU format Field Size Description Req.

(octets) Generic Provisioning Control 1-17 Generic Provisioning Payload 0-64 Generic Provisioning Control field Generic Provisioning Payload (segments of the Provisioning PDU) M M Table 5.7: Generic Provisioning PDU format The two least significant bits of the first octet of the Generic Provisioning Control field contain a Generic Provisioning Control Format (GPCF) field that determines the format of the Generic Provisioning Control field.

The GPCF field is an enumeration with the values shown in Table 5.8.

Value Ob00 Ob01 0b10 Description Transaction Start Transaction Acknowledgment Transaction Continuation Page 569 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification Value Ob11 Description Provisioning Bearer Control Table 5.8: Generic Provisioning Control Format field values The format of the GPC field for each format type is defined in Section 5.3.1.

5.3.1 Generic Provisioning PDU types 5.3.1.1 Transaction Start PDU A Transaction Start PDU is used to start the transmission of a segmented message.

The Generic Provisioning Control field of a Transaction Start PDU is illustrated in Figure 5.6 and shown in Table 5.9.

5 15 07 SegN 00 Total Length FCS Data (at minimum 1 octet) octet 0 octet 1 '0|7' octet 2 octet 3 Figure 5.6: Transaction Start PDU Field Size Description Req.

(bits) SegN 6 The last segment number M GPCF 2 Set to Transaction Start M TotalLength FCS 16 8 The number of octets in the Provisioning PDU M Frame Check Sequence of the Provisioning PDU M Table 5.9: Generic Provisioning Control field for Transaction Start PDU The SegN field shall be set to the last segment number (zero-based) of this transaction.

The GPCF field shall be set to Transaction Start.

The TotalLength field shall be set to the number of octets in the Provisioning PDU.

When transmitted using PB-ADV, the FCS field is calculated as defined by 3GPP TS 27.010 with the Polynomial (x8 + x² + x1 + 1) and is calculated over the Provisioning PDU only.

The Generic Provisioning Payload shall contain segment 0 of the Provisioning PDU.

5.3.1.2 Transaction Acknowledgment PDU A Transaction Acknowledgment PDU is used to acknowledge a Provisioning PDU.

The Generic Provisioning Control field of a Transaction Acknowledgment PDU is illustrated in Figure 5.7 and shown in Table 5.10.

* Page 570 of 867 Padding 0 octet 0 0 Figure 5.7: Transaction Acknowledgment PDU Field Size (bits) Description Padding 6 Ob000000; all other values Prohibited GPCF 2 Set to Transaction Acknowledgment Mesh Protocol / Specification Req.

M M Table 5.10: Generic Provisioning Control field for Transaction Acknowledgment PDU The GPCF field shall be set to Transaction Acknowledgment.

The Generic Provisioning Payload is zero length.

5.3.1.3 Transaction Continuation PDU A Transaction Continuation PDU is used to send additional segments of a Provisioning PDU.

The Generic Provisioning Control field of a Transaction Continuation PDU is illustrated in Figure 5.8 and shown in Table 5.11.

5 Segment Index 10 Data (at minimum 1 octet) octet 0 0 Figure 5.8: Transaction Continuation PDU Field Size Description (bits) SegmentIndex 6 Segment number of the transaction GPCF 2 Set to Transaction Continuation Req.

M M Table 5.11: Generic Provisioning Control field for Transaction Continuation PDU The SegmentIndex field shall be set to the segment number contained within this PDU.

The GPCF field shall be set to Transaction Continuation.

The Generic Provisioning Payload shall contain segment SegmentIndex of the Provisioning PDU.

5.3.1.4 Provisioning Bearer Control A Provisioning Bearer Control PDU is used to manage sessions on bearers that have no inherent session management.

The Generic Provisioning Control field of a Provisioning Bearer Control PDU is illustrated in Figure 5.9 and shown in Table 5.12.

The Provisioning Bearer Control PDUs are defined in the following sections.

Page 571 of 867 5 Bearer Opcode octet 0 0 Parameters Figure 5.9: Provisioning Bearer Control PDU Mesh Protocol / Specification Field Size (bits) Description Req.

BearerOpcode 6 GPCF 2 The opcode for the provisioning bearer control PDUs Set to Provisioning Bearer Control M M Parameters variable Parameters defined by each BearerOpcode M Table 5.12: Generic Provisioning Control field for Provisioning Bearer Control PDU The BearerOpcode values are defined in Table 5.13.

Description Open a session on a bearer with an unprovisioned device Value 0x00 Message Link Open 0x01 Link ACK 0x02 Link Close Close a session on a bearer 0x03-0x3F RFU Reserved for Future Use Acknowledge a session on a bearer Table 5.13: BearerOpcode field values The GPCF field shall be set to Provisioning Bearer Control.

The Generic Provisioning Payload is zero length.

The Parameters of each message are defined in the sections that follow.

5.3.1.4.1 Link Open message A Link Open message is used to establish a link between a Provisioner and an unprovisioned device.

The unprovisioned device shall acknowledge this message with the Link ACK message.

The Parameters field for the Link Open message is defined in Table 5.14 and the message is illustrated in Figure 5.10.

Field Size (octets) Description Req.

Device UUID 16 This is the Device UUID of the chosen unprovisioned device M Table 5.14: Parameters field of Link Open message * Page 572 of 867 5 0 127 0x00 Link Open octet 0 07 octet 1 0 Device UUID |7' 'octet 16' Figure 5.10: Link Open message format 5.3.1.4.2 Link ACK message Mesh Protocol / Specification A Link ACK message is sent to acknowledge the receipt of the Link Open message.

There are no Parameters for this message.

The Link ACK message is illustrated in Figure 5.11.

5 0x01 Link ACK 0 octet 0 0 Figure 5.11: Link ACK message format 5.3.1.4.3 Link Close message A Link Close message is used to close a link.

Since this message is not acknowledged, the sender shall repeat this message at least three times.

Both sides of the link may send this message.

This message shall be accepted and processed regardless of the setting of the Reason field.

The Parameters field for the Link Close message is defined in Table 5.15 and the message is illustrated in Figure 5.12.

Field Size (octets) Description 1 The reason for closing the link Reason Table 5.15: Parameters field of Link Close message The Reason field values are defined in Table 5.16.

Value Reason Description 0x00 Success The provisioning was successful 0x01 Timeout The provisioning transaction timed out 0x02 Fail 0x03-0xFF Unrecognized The provisioning failed Unrecognized reason that may be defined in the future.

Table 5.16: Reason field values Req.

M Page 573 of 867 5 0x02 Link Close 0 Reason octet 0 07 octet 1 0 Mesh Protocol / Specification Figure 5.12: Link Close message format 5.3.2 Link Establishment procedure The Link Establishment procedure is used to establish a session for a bearer that does not have inherent session management.

A session is identified by using a Link ID that is static for the duration of the session and shall be randomly generated to prevent collisions between sessions.

A link is established between a Provisioner and an unprovisioned device for sending provisioning messages.

The unprovisioned device is identified by a Device UUID (see Section 3.11.3).

The Provisioner shall scan for unprovisioned devices.

Upon receiving an Unprovisioned Device beacon, the Provisioner may establish a link with the unprovisioned device identified by the Device UUID.

The link is open for the unprovisioned device when the unprovisioned device sends a Link ACK for the Link Open message.

The link is open for the Provisioner when a Link ACK is received with the Link ID equal to the Link ID sent in the Link Open message.

The unprovisioned device is being provisioned when the link is open and the unprovisioned device has received any Provisioning PDU.

When the link is open, the unprovisioned device shall ignore Generic Provisioning PDUs with the Link ID not equal to the Link ID received in the Link Open message.

When the link is not open, and the unprovisioned device receives a Link Open message, then the unprovisioned device shall accept this message by replying with a Link ACK message with the same Link ID set in the PB-ADV PDU.

When the link is open, and the unprovisioned device is not being provisioned, and the unprovisioned device receives a Link Open message with the same Link ID, then the unprovisioned device shall reply with a Link ACK message with the same Link ID set in the PB-ADV PDU.

When the link is open, the unprovisioned device shall ignore all Provisioning Bearer Control PDUs received with a different Link ID.

To open a link, the Provisioner shall start the link establishment timer from the initial value set to 60 seconds, and then shall start sending Link Open messages.

The Provisioner may cancel this procedure at any time.

The Link Open message contains the Device UUID of the unprovisioned device.

On PB-ADV, the PB-ADV PDU format includes a Link ID field.

When the link establishment timer expires, the link is considered not open and the procedure may be restarted.

When the link is open, the Provisioner shall stop the link establishment timer.

The link may be closed at any time after link establishment by sending the Link Close message.

Either side of the link may send the Link Close message.

The Link Open, Link ACK, and Link Close messages are defined in Section 5.3.1.4.

The message sequence for establishment of a link by ID between a Provisioner and an unprovisioned device is illustrated by Figure 5.13 below.

尖 Page 574 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification Provisioner Unprovisioned Device #1 Unprovisioned Device #2 Scan Unprovisioned Device Beacon (UUID#3, OOB Info) Unprovisioned Device Beacon (UUID#1, OOB Info) Unprovisioned Device Beacon (UUID#2, OOB Info) Provisioner chooses to provision device with UUID#2 Link Open (UUID#2) I Link ACK Provisioning Process Link Close (Reason) Unprovisioned Device #3 Figure 5.13: Establishment of Link by ID between a Provisioner and an unprovisioned device 5.3.3 Generic Provisioning behavior Each Generic Provisioning PDU shall be sent after a random delay between 20 and 50 milliseconds.

Each Provisioning PDU (see Section 5.4) is transmitted as a separate transaction.

A transaction may be composed of one or more segments.

The number of segments required to send a Provisioning PDU is determined by the size of the Provisioning PDU.

Segments are indexed from 0 to 63.

Segment 0 shall be sent using a Transaction Start PDU.

All other segments shall be sent using a Transaction Continuation PDU.

Each segment of the Provisioning PDU is placed into the Generic Provisioning Payload field of the respective Generic Provisioning PDU.

Each bearer has its own constraints on the maximum size of a Generic Provisioning PDU that can be transmitted by that bearer.

Each Generic Provisioning PDU shall be the length of the full MTU for that bearer, except for the last segment of a transaction.

The sender shall send all segments of a transaction in sequence.

If the sender does not receive a Transaction Acknowledgment message, the sender shall retransmit all segments of a transaction.

Page 575 of 867.

Mesh Protocol / Specification If the sender receives a Transaction Acknowledgment message, then the transaction has completed.

the sender receives a message with other PDU types, then the message shall be ignored.

When the first message in a transaction is sent, the sender shall start the acknowledgment timer with an initial value of 30 seconds.

When the Transaction Acknowledgment message for the transaction is received, the sender shall stop the acknowledgment timer.

When the acknowledgment timer expires, the sender shall cancel the transaction, cancel the provisioning process, and close the link.

The receiver shall determine the number of segments for a transaction from the Transaction Start PDU.

On the PB-ADV bearer, when the receiver has received all segments of a transaction, the receiver shall calculate the FCS for the received Provisioning PDU, and if it matches the FCS field in the Transaction Start PDU, it shall send a Transaction Acknowledgment PDU after a random delay between 20 and 50 milliseconds.

When a Transaction Acknowledgment PDU has been sent for a given transaction and another segment of the same transaction has been received, another Transaction Acknowledgment PDU shall be sent and the received segment shall be ignored.

5.4 Provisioning protocol This section defines requirements for Provisioning PDUs, behavior, and security.

The provisioning protocol defines two roles: • Provisioner • Provisionee The Provisioner is a device that initiates the provisioning protocol.

The Provisionee is a device that participates in the execution of the provisioning protocol with the Provisioner, upon request from the Provisioner.

5.4.1 Provisioning PDUs The Provisioning PDUs are used to communicate between a Provisioner and a Provisionee.

The first octet of the Provisioning PDU is the Type field and defines the format of the Parameters of the Provisioning PDU.

The Provisioning PDU format is defined in Table 5.17 and illustrated in Figure 5.14.

Field Size (bits) Description Padding 2 Ob00.

All other values are Prohibited Type CO 6 Provisioning PDU Type value (see the Assigned Numbers document [4] Error! Reference source not found.) Req.

Page 576 of 867 Field Size (bits) Description Parameters variable Message parameters Table 5.17: Provisioning PDU format Padding Type octet 0 0 octet 1 Parameters octet n Mesh Protocol / Specification Req.

M Figure 5.14: Provisioning PDU format The Provisioning PDU Type values are defined in the Assigned Numbers document [4].

5.4.1.1 Provisioning Invite A Provisioner sends a Provisioning Invite PDU to indicate to the intended Provisionee that the provisioning process is starting.

The format of the parameters for the Provisioning Invite PDU is defined in Table 5.18.

Field Size (octets) Description Req.

Attention Duration 1 Attention Timer state (See Section 4.2.10) M Table 5.18: Provisioning Invite PDU parameters format 5.4.1.2 Provisioning Capabilities The Provisionee sends a Provisioning Capabilities PDU to indicate its supported provisioning capabilities to a Provisioner.

The format of the parameters for the Provisioning Capabilities PDU is defined in Table 5.19.

Field Size (octets) Description Req.

Number of Elements 1 Algorithms 2 Number of elements supported by the Provisionee Supported algorithms and other capabilities (see Table 5.21) M M Public Key Type 1 Supported public key types (see Table 5.22) M OOB Type 1 Supported OOB Types (see Table 5.23) M Output OOB Size 1 Maximum size of Output OOB supported (see Table 5.24) M Output OOB Action 2 Supported Output OOB Actions (see Table 5.25) M Input OOB Size 1 Maximum size in octets of Input OOB supported (see Table 5.26) M Input OOB Action 2 Supported Input OOB Actions (see Table 5.27) M Table 5.19: Provisioning Capabilities PDU parameters format Page 577 of 867 The Number of Elements values are defined in Table 5.20.

Value 0x00 0x01-0xFF Description Prohibited Number of elements supported by the Provisionee Table 5.20: Number of Elements field values The Algorithms values are defined in Table 5.21.

Bit Name Mesh Protocol / Specification 1 2-15 BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM BTM_ECDH_P256_HMAC_SHA256_AES_CCM Reserved for Future Use Table 5.21: Algorithms field values The BTM_ECDH_P256_HMAC_SHA256_AES_CCM bit of the Algorithms field shall be set to 1 by a Provisionee.

Other sections of this specification may introduce further requirements for the value of this field.

The Public Key Type values are defined in Table 5.22.

Bit 0 1-7 Description Public Key OOB information available Reserved for Future Use Table 5.22: Public Key Type field values The size of the Public Key OOB information is determined by the selected Algorithm.

The OOB Type values are defined in Table 5.23.

Bit 0 1 2-7 Description Static OOB information available Only OOB authenticated provisioning supported Reserved for Future Use Table 5.23: OOB Type field values If bit 1 of the OOB Type field is set to 1, bit 0 of the Algorithms field shall be set to 0 and at least one of the conditions listed below shall be met: • Bit 0 of the OOB Type field is set to 1.

• The Output OOB Size field is not equal to 0x00.

• The Input OOB Size field is not equal to 0x00.

Page 578 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification The maximum size of the Static OOB information is 32 octets.

The data type for the Static OOB information shall be Binary, Numeric, or Alphanumeric.

The Output OOB Size defines the number of digits that can be output (e.g., displayed or spoken) when the value Output Numeric is set and Output Alphanumeric is not set in the Output OOB Action field (see Table 5.25).

The Output OOB Size defines the number of digits and uppercase letters that can be output when the value Output Numeric is not set and Output Alphanumeric is set in the Output OOB Action field.

The Output OOB Size defines the number of digits and uppercase letters that can be output when the value Output Numeric is set and Output Alphanumeric is set in the Output OOB Action field.

The Output OOB Size values are defined in Table 5.24.

Value 0x00 0x01-0x08 0x09-0xFF Description The Provisionee does not support Output OOB Maximum size of Output OOB supported by the Provisionee Reserved for Future Use Table 5.24: Output OOB Size field values The Output OOB Action values are defined in Table 5.25.

Bit Description Blink 1 Beep 2 Vibrate 3 Output Numeric 4 Output Alphanumeric 5-15 Reserved for Future Use Data Type Numeric Numeric Numeric Numeric Alphanumeric n/a Table 5.25: Output OOB Action field values The Input OOB Size defines the number of digits that can be entered when the value Input Numeric is set and Input Alphanumeric is not set in the Input OOB Action field (see Table 5.27).

The Input OOB Size defines the number of digits and uppercase letters that can be entered when the value Input Numeric is not set and Input Alphanumeric is set in the Input OOB Action field.

The Input OOB Size defines the number of digits and uppercase letters that can be entered when the value Input Numeric is set and Input Alphanumeric is set in the Input OOB Action field.

The Input OOB Size values are defined in Table 5.26.

Value 0x00 0x01-0x08 0x09-0xFF Description The Provisionee does not support Input OOB Maximum size of Input OOB supported by the Provisionee Reserved for Future Use Table 5.26: Input OOB Size field values The Input OOB Actions are defined in Table 5.27.

尖 Page 579 of 867 Bit Description Push Data Type Numeric Numeric 1 Twist 2 Input Numeric Numeric 3 Input Alphanumeric Alphanumeric 4-15 Reserved for Future Use n/a Mesh Protocol / Specification Table 5.27: Input OOB Action field values 5.4.1.3 Provisioning Start A Provisioner sends a Provisioning Start PDU to indicate the method it has selected from the options in the Provisioning Capabilities PDU.

The format of the parameters for the Provisioning Start PDU is defined in Table 5.28.

Field Size (octets) Description Req.

Algorithm 1 Public Key 1 The algorithm used for provisioning (see Table 5.29) Public Key used (see Table 5.30) M M Authentication Method 1 Authentication Action 1 Authentication Size 1 Authentication Method used (see Table 5.31) Selected Output OOB Action (see Table 5.32) or Input M OOB Action (see Table 5.34) or 0x00 Size of the Output OOB used (see Table 5.33) or size M of the Input OOB used (see Table 5.35) or 0x00 Table 5.28: Provisioning Start PDU parameters format The Algorithm values are defined in Table 5.29.

M Value 0x00 0x01 0x02-0xFF Description BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM BTM_ECDH_P256_HMAC_SHA256_AES_CCM Reserved for Future Use Table 5.29: Algorithm field values The Public Key values are defined in Table 5.30.

Value 0x00 0x01 0x02-0xFF Description No OOB Public Key is used OOB Public Key is used Reserved for Future Use Table 5.30: Public Key field values Page 580 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification The Authentication Method field values are defined in Table 5.31.

Value 0x00 0x01 0x02 0x03 0x04-0xFF Name Authentication with No OOB Authentication with Static OOB Authentication with Output OOB Authentication with Input OOB Prohibited Table 5.31: Authentication Method field values Description No OOB authentication is used Static OOB authentication is used Output OOB authentication is used Input OOB authentication is used Prohibited When the Authentication Method field value is Authentication with No OOB, the Authentication Action field shall be set to 0x00 and the Authentication Size field shall be set to 0x00.

When the Authentication Method field value is Authentication with Static OOB, the Authentication Size shall be set to 0x00 and the Authentication Action field shall be set to 0x00.

The data type shall be transferred using an OOB technology.

When the Authentication Method field value is Authentication with Output OOB, the values defined in Table 5.32 and Table 5.33 shall be used to determine the data type, the Authentication Action, and the Authentication Size.

The Output OOB Action values for the Authentication Action field are defined in Table 5.32.

Value Description 0x00 Blink 0x01 Beep 0x02 Vibrate 0x03 Output Numeric 0x04 0x05-0xFF Data Type Numeric Numeric Numeric Numeric Alphanumeric Output Alphanumeric Reserved for Future Use Table 5.32: Output OOB Action values for the Authentication Action field The Output OOB Size for the Authentication Size field values are defined in Table 5.33.

Value 0x00 Description Prohibited 0x01-0x08 0x09-0xFF The Output OOB Size to be used Reserved for Future Use Table 5.33: Output OOB Size values for the Authentication Size field When the Authentication Method field value is Authentication with Input OOB, the values defined in Table 5.34 and Table 5.35 shall be used to determine the data type, the Authentication Action and the Authentication Size.

Page 581 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification The Input OOB Action values for the Authentication Action field are defined in Table 5.34.

Value Description 0x00 Push 0x01 Twist 0x02 Input Numeric 0x03 0x04-0xFF Input Alphanumeric Reserved for Future Use Data Type Numeric Numeric Numeric Alphanumeric Table 5.34: Input OOB Action values for the Authentication Action field The Input OOB Size values for the Authentication Size field are defined in Table 5.35.

Value Description Prohibited 0x00 0x01-0x08 The Input OOB size to be used 0x09-0xFF Reserved for Future Use Table 5.35: Input OOB Size values for the Authentication Size field 5.4.1.4 Provisioning Public Key The Provisioner sends a Provisioning Public Key PDU to deliver the public key to be used in the ECDH calculations.

The format of the parameters for the Provisioning Public Key PDU is defined in Table 5.36.

Field Size (octets) Description Req.

32 32 Public Key X The X component of P-256 elliptic curve public key Public Key Y The Y component of P-256 elliptic curve public key Table 5.36: Provisioning Public Key PDU Parameters Format M M 5.4.1.5 Provisioning Input Complete The Provisionee sends a Provisioning Input Complete PDU when the user completes the input operation.

There are no parameters for the Provisioning Input Complete PDU.

5.4.1.6 Provisioning Confirmation The Provisioner or the Provisionee sends a Provisioning Confirmation PDU to its peer to confirm the values exchanged so far, including the OOB Authentication value and the random number that has yet to be exchanged.

The format of the parameters for the Provisioning Confirmation PDU is defined in Table 5.37.

Page 582 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification Field Size (octets) Description Req.

Confirmation 16 or 32 The values exchanged so far including the OOB Authentication value M Table 5.37: Provisioning Confirmation PDU parameters format the PDU is sent by the Provisioner, the Confirmation field shall contain the Confirmation Provisioner value.

If the PDU is sent by the Provisionee, the Confirmation field shall contain the Confirmation Device value.

The size of the Confirmation field, the Confirmation Provisioner value, and the Confirmation Device value are defined in Section 5.4.2.4.1.

5.4.1.7 Provisioning Random The Provisioner or the Provisionee sends a Provisioning Random PDU to enable its peer device to validate the confirmation.

The format of the parameters for the Provisioning Random PDU is defined in Table 5.38.

Field Size (octets) Description 16 or 32 The final input to the confirmation Req.

Random Table 5.38: Provisioning Random PDU parameters format If the PDU is sent by the Provisioner, the Random field shall contain the Random Provisioner value.

If the PDU is sent by the Provisionee, the Random field shall contain the Random Device value.

M The size of the Random field, the Random Provisioner value, and the Random Device value are defined in Section 5.4.2.4.1.

5.4.1.8 Provisioning Data The Provisioner sends a Provisioning Data PDU to deliver provisioning data to a Provisionee.

The format of the parameters for the Provisioning Data PDU is defined in Table 5.39.

Field Size (octets) Description Req.

Encrypted Provisioning Data 25 An encrypted and authenticated network key, NetKey Index, Key Refresh Flag, IV Update Flag, current value of the IV Index, and unicast address of the primary element (see Section 5.4.2.5) M Provisioning Data MIC 8 PDU Integrity Check value M Table 5.39: Provisioning Data PDU parameters format Page 583 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification 5.4.1.9 Provisioning Complete The Provisionee sends a Provisioning Complete PDU to indicate that it has successfully received and processed the provisioning data.

There are no parameters for the Provisioning Complete PDU.

5.4.1.10 Provisioning Failed The Provisionee sends a Provisioning Failed PDU if it fails to process a received provisioning protocol PDU.

The format of the parameters for the Provisioning Failed PDU is defined in Table 5.40.

Field Error Code Size (octets) Description Req.

This represents a specific error in the provisioning protocol encountered by a Provisionee M Table 5.40: Provisioning Failed PDU parameters format The provisioning error codes are defined in Table 5.41.

Value 0x00 Name Prohibited 0x01 Invalid PDU 0x02 Invalid Format 0x03 0x04 0x05 Unexpected PDU Confirmation Failed Out of Resources Unexpected Error 0x06 Decryption Failed 0x07 0x08 Cannot Assign Addresses 0x09 Invalid Data 0x0A-0xFF RFU Table 5.41: Provisioning error codes Description Prohibited The provisioning protocol PDU is not recognized by the Provisionee The arguments of the protocol PDUs are outside expected values or the length of the PDU is different than expected The PDU received was not expected at this moment of the procedure The computed confirmation value was not successfully verified The provisioning protocol cannot be continued due to insufficient resources in the Provisionee The Data block was not successfully decrypted An unexpected error occurred that may not be recoverable The Provisionee cannot assign consecutive unicast addresses to all elements The Data block contains values that cannot be accepted because of general constraints Reserved for Future Use Page 584 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification 5.4.1.11 Provisioning Record Request The Provisioner sends a Provisioning Record Request PDU to request a provisioning record fragment (a part of a provisioning record; see Section 5.4.2.6) from the Provisionee.

The format of the parameters for the Provisioning Record Request PDU is defined in Table 5.42.

Field Size (octets) Description Req.

Record ID 2 Identifies the provisioning record for which the request is made (see Section 5.4.2.6).

M Fragment Offset Fragment The starting offset of the requested fragment in the provisioning record data M 2 Maximum Size The maximum size of the provisioning record fragment that the Provisioner can receive M Table 5.42: Provisioning Record Request PDU parameters format A Provisionee may contain multiple provisioning records, and the Record ID field specifies the record that is being requested.

The Fragment Offset field value indicates the starting offset for the provisioning record data fragment the Provisioning Record Response PDU that corresponds to the Provisioning Record Request.

The Fragment Offset field values are in the range 0, indicating the first octet of the provisioning record data, to the provisioning record data length (in bytes) minus 1, indicating the last octet of the provisioning record data.

The Fragment Maximum Size field specifies the maximum fragment size that the Provisioner can accept.

The choice of the value is affected by the provisioning bearer that is being used.

A value of 0x0000 is Prohibited.

5.4.1.12 Provisioning Record Response The Provisionee sends a Provisioning Record Response PDU in response to a Provisioning Record Request PDU.

The format of the parameters for the Provisioning Record Response PDU is defined in Table 5.43.

Field Size Description Req.

(octets) Status Indicates whether or not the request was handled successfully (see Table 5.44).

M Record ID 2 Identifies the provisioning record whose data fragment is sent in M the response (see Section 5.4.2.6).

Fragment Offset 2 The starting offset of the data fragment in the provisioning record data M Total Length Total length of the provisioning record data stored on the Provisionee M Page 585 of 867 Field Size Description (octets) N Mesh Protocol / Specification Req.

Data Provisioning record data fragment Table 5.43: Provisioning Record Response PDU parameters format Table 5.44 defines status codes for the Provisioning Record Response PDU.

Status Code 0x00 0x01 0x02 0x03-0xFF Status Code Name Success Requested Record Is Not Present Requested Offset Is Out Of Bounds Reserved for Future Use Table 5.44: Status codes for the Provisioning Record Response PDU The value of the Record ID field of the Provisioning Record Response PDU shall be set to the value of the Record ID field of the corresponding Provisioning Record Request PDU.

The value of the Fragment Offset field of the Provisioning Record Response PDU shall be set to the value of the Fragment Offset field of the corresponding Provisioning Record Request PDU.

If the value of the Status field of the Provisioning Record Response PDU is either Success or Requested Offset Is Out Of Bounds, the Total Length field indicates the length of provisioning record data that the Provisionee has for the provisioning record specified by the Record ID field of the Provisioning Record Response PDU.

If the value of the Status field of the Provisioning Record Response PDU is Requested Record Is Not Present, the Total Length field shall be set to 0x0000.

The Data field contains a fragment of the provisioning record specified by the Record ID field of the Provisioning Record Response PDU.

If the value of the Status field of the Provisioning Record Response PDU is not Success, the Data field shall be empty.

If the value of the Status field of the Provisioning Record Response PDU is Success, the fragment shall start at the position given by the Fragment Offset field of the Provisioning Record Response PDU.

The length of the fragment shall not exceed the value in the Fragment Maximum Size field of the corresponding Provisioning Record Request PDU.

The fragment may be shorter than the value of the Fragment Maximum Size field if less data is available or if the Provisionee cannot create a message of the requested size because of memory limitations or some other limiting factor.

* Page 586 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification 5.4.1.13 Provisioning Records Get The Provisioner sends a Provisioning Records Get PDU to request the list of IDs of the provisioning records that are stored on a Provisionee.

There are no parameters for the Provisioning Records Get PDU.

5.4.1.14 Provisioning Records List The Provisionee sends a Provisioning Records List PDU in response to a Provisioning Records Get PDU.

The format of the parameters for the Provisioning Records List PDU is defined in Table 5.45.

Field Size (octets) Description Req.

Provisioning Extensions Records List 2 Bitmask indicating the provisioning extensions supported by the Provisionee (see Table 5.46) M variable Lists the Record IDs of the provisioning records stored on the Provisionee (see Section 5.4.2.6) Table 5.45: Provisioning Records List PDU parameters format Table 5.46 defines provisioning extension values.

Bit 0-15 Description Reserved for Future Use Table 5.46: Values for the Provisioning Extensions field The value of the Provisioning Extensions field of the Provisioning Records List PDU indicates the provisioning extensions supported by the Provisionee.

The Records List field of the Provisioning Records List PDU shall list the 16-bit Record IDs of the provisioning records that are stored on the Provisionee.

If no provisioning records are stored on the Provisionee, the field shall be empty.

5.4.2 Provisioning behavior Provisioning is performed using a five-step process: beaconing, invitation, exchanging public keys, authentication, and distribution of the provisioning data, as illustrated by Figure 5.15.

Page 587 of 867 尖 0: Scan for Unprovisioned Device Beacons No OOB Information available? Yes 2a: Start without OOB Public Key 1: Invitation & Capabilities No Use OOB Public Key Yes Calculate ECDH Fetch OOB Information Mesh Protocol / Specification 2b: Start using OOB Public Key Output OOB Authentication Method Static or no OOB Input OOB 3a: Use Output OOB 3b: Use Input OOB 3c: Use Static or No OOB Prepare Provisioning Data 4: Distribution of Provisioning Data Figure 5.15: Provisioning behavior Page 588 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification 5.4.2.1 Beaconing A device that supports PB-ADV, has not been provisioned, and is not in the process of being provisioned, shall advertise the Unprovisioned Device beacon, as defined in Section 3.10.2, otherwise a device shall not advertise the Unprovisioned Device beacon.

When a device has not been provisioned, it is recommended to use anonymous advertising [2], a non-resolvable private address, or a resolvable private address.

This beacon may indicate availability of OOB data that allows a Provisioner to prompt the user to collect this OOB data before the next step.

A device that supports PB-GATT, has not been provisioned, and is not in the process of being provisioned, must advertise the Mesh Provisioning Service as required by Section 7.1.2.2.1.

5.4.2.2 Invitation After establishing a provisioning bearer, a Provisioner shall send a Provisioning Invite PDU and the Provisionee shall respond with a Provisioning Capabilities PDU.

The Provisioning Invite PDU includes an Attention Duration field for the primary element of the Provisionee and any other elements where the Attention Timer state (described in Section 4.2.10) is present.

The Attention Duration field is used to determine how long elements take to identify themselves using the Attention Timer.

If the provisioning bearer is dropped, the Provisionee shall set the Attention Timer state of the primary element, and any other elements where the Attention Timer is present, to 0x00 (Off).

This Provisioning Capabilities PDU shall include information on the number of supported elements that are present in Composition Data Page 0 (see Section 4.2.2.1), the set of security algorithms supported, the availability of its public key using an OOB technology, the ability for this device to output a value to the user, the ability for this device to allow a value to be input by the user, and if the device has a block of OOB data that can be used for authentication.

Optionally, after establishing a provisioning bearer, a Provisioner may retrieve provisioning record information from the device (see Section 5.4.2.6) before sending a Provisioning Invite PDU.

The message sequence for provisioning invitation is illustrated by Figure 5.16 below.

Page 589 of 867 Provisioner 0: Scan for Unprovisioned Device Beacons Unprovisioned Device Beacon 1: Invitation & Capabilities Provisioning Invite Provisioning Capabilities Mesh Protocol / Specification Provisionee Figure 5.16: Provisioning invitation 5.4.2.3 Exchanging public keys This step has two possibilities depending on the availability of the Provisionee public key on the Provisioner side.

Combined with the three possibilities of the authentication step (see Section 5.4.2.4), there are six possible exchange/authentication paths.

Once the Provisioner has determined that it can provision the Provisionee, it shall send a Provisioning Start PDU that details which of the six possible paths that the Provisioner has chosen to use.

Upon receiving the Provisioning Start PDU from the Provisioner, the Provisionee shall set the Attention Timers present on the device to 0x00.

If bit 1 of the OOB Type field of the Provisioning Capabilities PDU is set to 1 (Only OOB authenticated provisioning supported) and any of the following conditions is met: • 尖 the Algorithm field of the Provisioning Start PDU is not set to BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM and the Provisioning Start PDU has the Authentication Method field set to the Authentication with No OOB value the Algorithm field is set to BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM the provisioning protocol shall fail and the message shall be treated by the Provisionee as an error in the provisioning protocol.

Page 590 of 867.

Mesh Protocol / Specification The Provisioner shall support all Algorithm values as defined in Table 5.29.

The Provisioner shall select a single algorithm from those offered to it by the New Device in the Provisioning Capability PDU.

If the Provisioner does not understand a bit set in this algorithm bit field, it shall ignore that bit and only select from the algorithms it does understand.

The Provisioner should choose the strongest algorithm.

The Provisioner shall not use BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM if another algorithm is supported by the Provisionee.

If the Provisioner cannot retrieve the public key using an OOB technology or the Provisioner has not accessed the Provisionee's public key via an OOB technology, or if the Provisioner does not use an OOB public key, then the Provisioner sets the Public Key field in the Provisioning Start PDU to zero and the public keys are exchanged between the Provisioner and the Provisionee.

For each such exchange, a new key pair shall be generated by the Provisioner and the Provisionee.

The Provisionee shall send its generated public key if the Public Key field in the Provisioning Start PDU is set to zero.

The message sequence for public key exchange when the Provisionee public key is unknown is illustrated by Figure 5.17.

Provisioner Calculate ECDH 2a: Start without OOB Public Key Provisioning Start (No OOB Public Key is used) Provisioning Public Key Provisioning Public Key Provisionee Calculate ECDH Figure 5.17: Public key exchange when Provisionee public key is unknown Otherwise, if the public key is available using an OOB technology and the Provisioner has accessed the device's public key via an OOB technology, then the Provisioner sets the Public Key field in the Provisioning Start PDU to 1, and a new key pair shall be generated by the Provisioner, and the public key of the generated key pair shall be transmitted from the Provisioner to the Provisionee, and the public key read from the device using the appropriate OOB technology shall be used.

Page 591 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification A Provisionee's public key that is contained in a Device Certificate as specified in Section 5.5.1, and retrievable from the device over an established provisioning bearer (see Section 5.4.2.6) or retrievable from the Internet (see Section 5.6), is considered to be available using an OOB technology when the Provisioner supports certificate-based provisioning.

The message sequence for public key exchange when the unprovisioned device public key is OOB is illustrated by Figure 5.18.

Provisioner Calculate ECDH Provisioner reads public key from unprovisioned device (OOB).

2b: Start using OOB Public Key Provisioning Start (OOB Public Key is used) Provisioning Public Key Provisionee Calculate ECDH Figure 5.18: Public key exchange when Provisionee public key is OOB The Provisioner and the Provisionee shall check whether the public key provided by the peer device or obtained OOB is valid (see Section 5.4.3.1).

When the Provisioner receives an invalid public key or a public key that is equal to the Provisioner public key, then provisioning shall fail, and the Provisioner shall act as described in Section 5.4.4.

When the Provisionee receives an invalid public key or a public key that is equal to the Provisionee public key, then provisioning shall fail and the Provisionee shall act as described in Section 5.4.4 and should indicate the Invalid Format Error Code in the Provisioning Failed PDU.

After the public key is known and has been validated, the ECDHSecret shall be computed using the following formula: ECDHSecret P256(private key, peer public key) 尖 Page 592 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification After the ECDHSecret is computed, the Provisioner and the Provisionee shall delete its private-public key pair that was generated in this step.

5.4.2.4 Authentication 5.4.2.4.1 AuthValue computation Once the public key exchange has been performed, a confirmation exchange followed by a random number exchange is performed.

The confirmation values are a cryptographic hash of all the values exchanged so far, the random number that is yet to be revealed, and the AuthValue.

Once the random numbers are exchanged, each device authenticates its peer.

The authentication value from the Authentication Method (Authentication with Output OOB, Authentication with Input OOB, or Authentication with Static OOB) is used in the Auth Value for the purpose of computing the confirmation value.

If the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM, the confirmation value of the Provisioner is a 128-bit value, the confirmation value of the Provisionee is a 128bit value, and they are computed using: ConfirmationProvisioner-AES-CMAC ConfirmationKey (RandomProvisioner || AuthValue) ConfirmationDevice=AES-CMAC ConfirmationKey (RandomDevice || AuthValue) Where: ConfirmationKey=k1(ECDHSecret, ConfirmationSalt, "prck") ConfirmationSalt=s1(ConfirmationInputs) ConfirmationInputs=ProvisioningInvite PDUValue || ProvisioningCapabilitiesPDUValue || ProvisioningStartPDUValue || PublicKeyProvisioner || PublicKeyDevice If the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_HMAC_SHA256_AES_CCM, the confirmation value of the Provisioner is a 256-bit value, the confirmation value of the Provisionee is a 256-bit value, and they are computed using: Where: ConfirmationProvisioner=HMAC-SHA-256 Confirmation Key (RandomProvisioner) ConfirmationDevice=HMAC-SHA-256 ConfirmationKey (RandomDevice) ConfirmationKey=k5(ECDHSecret || AuthValue, ConfirmationSalt, “prck256") ConfirmationSalt=s2(ConfirmationInputs) Confirmation Inputs-ProvisioningInvitePDUValue || ProvisioningCapabilities PDUValue || ProvisioningStartPDUValue || PublicKeyProvisioner || PublicKeyDevice The Provisioning Invite PDUValue is the value of the Provisioning Invite PDU fields (excluding the opcode) that was sent or received.

Page 593 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification The Provisioning Capabilities PDUValue is the value of the Provisioning Capabilities PDU fields (excluding the opcode) that was sent or received.

The ProvisioningStartPDUValue is the value of the Provisioning Start PDU fields (excluding the opcode) that was sent or received.

The PublicKeyProvisioner is the value of the Public Key X and Public Key Y fields from the Public Key PDU that was sent by the Provisioner.

The PublicKeyDevice is the value of the Public Key X and Public Key Y fields from the Public Key PDU that was sent by the Provisionee or from the delivered OOB public key.

The RandomProvisioner is a string of random bits generated by the Provisioner's random number generator.

The random number generator shall be compatible with the requirements in Volume 2, Part H, Section 2 of the Core Specification [1].

If the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM, the Random Provisioner is a 128-bit value.

If the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_HMAC_SHA256_AES_CCM, the Random Provisioner is a 256-bit value.

The RandomDevice is a string of random bits generated by the Provisionee's random number generator.

The random number generator shall be compatible with the requirements in Volume 2, Part H, Section 2 of the Core Specification [1].

If the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM, the Random Device is a 128-bit value.

If the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_HMAC_SHA256_AES_CCM, the Random Device is a 256-bit value.

If the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM, the AuthValue is a 128-bit value.

If the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_HMAC_SHA256_AES_CCM, the AuthValue is a 256-bit value.

The computation of AuthValue depends on the data type.

There are three data type values defined: Binary, Numeric, and Alphanumeric.

If the Authentication Method field value is Authentication with No OOB, the data type is Numeric, and the authentication value is 0.

If the Authentication Method field value is Authentication with Static OOB, the data type and authentication value are transferred using an OOB technology.

If the Authentication Method field value is Authentication with Output OOB, the data type is defined by the Output OOB Action (see Table 5.32) and the authentication value is transferred using the mechanism defined by the Authentication Action.

If the Authentication Method field value is Authentication with Input OOB, the data type is defined by the Input OOB Action (see Table 5.34) and the authentication value is transferred using the mechanism defined by the Authentication Action.

Data type Binary If the data type is Binary, the authentication value is an array of octets.

The authentication value array shall be copied to the AuthValue.

If the authentication value is shorter than the defined AuthValue size, the remaining bits shall be set to 0.

If the authentication value is longer than the defined AuthValue size, the array shall be trimmed by removing octets with indexes higher than needed.

Page 594 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification For example, if the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM and the authentication value is [0x12, 0x34, 0x56], the AuthValue is an array consisting of [0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00], and if the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_HMAC_SHA256_AES_CCM and the authentication value is [0x78, 0x9A, 0xBC, OxDE], the AuthValue is an array consisting of [0x78, 0x9A, 0xBC, 0xDE, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00].

For example, if the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM and the authentication value is [0x00, 0x01, 0x02, 0x03, 0x04, 0x05, 0x06, 0x07, 0x08, 0x09, 0x0A, 0x0B, 0x0C, OXOD, OXOE, OXOF, 0x10, 0x11, 0x12, 0x13], the AuthValue is an array consisting of [0x00, 0x01, 0x02, 0x03, 0x04, 0x05, 0x06, 0x07, 0x08, 0x09, 0x0A, 0x0B, 0x0C, 0x0D, 0x0E, 0x0F].

Data type Numeric If the data type is Numeric and the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM, the authentication value is a number and shall be represented as an unsigned 128-bit value.

If the data type is Numeric and the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_HMAC_SHA256_AES_CCM, the authentication value is a number and shall be represented as an unsigned 256-bit value.

For example, if the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM and the Authentication with Output OOB method is used with the Output OOB Action as Blink and the output is a value of 5 (authentication value), then the AuthValue shall be 0x00000000000000000000000000000005.

The AuthValue is then encoded as defined in Section 5.1 to compute the confirmation values, resulting in an array consisting of [0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x05].

For example, if the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM and the Authentication with Output OOB method is used with the Output OOB Action as Output Numeric and the displayed number is 019655 (authentication value), then the AuthValue shall be 0x00000000000000000000000000004CC7.

The AuthValue is then encoded as defined in Section 5.1 to compute the confirmation values, resulting in an array consisting of [0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x4C, 0xC7].

For example, if the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM and the Authentication with No OOB method is used, the authentication value shall be set to 0x00000000000000000000000000000000, which means it is not authenticated, resulting in an Auth Value array consisting of [0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00].

Data type Alphanumeric If the data type is Alphanumeric, the authentication value is an array of octets constructed from a string of ASCII codes of the characters.

The authentication value array shall be copied to the AuthValue.

If the authentication value is shorter than the defined AuthValue size, the remaining octets shall be set to 0.

If the authentication value is longer than the defined AuthValue size, the array shall be trimmed by removing octets with indexes higher than needed.

For example, if the Algorithm field is BTM_ECDH_P256_CMAC_AES128_AES_CCM and the Authentication with Output OOB method is used with the Output OOB Action as Output Alphanumeric and the displayed string is "123ABC" (authentication value), then the AuthValue shall be 尖 Page 595 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification 0x31323341424300000000000000000000, resulting in an array consisting of [0x31, 0x32, 0x33, 0x41, 0x42, 0x43, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00].

5.4.2.4.2 Confirmation and random number exchange To complete confirmation and random number exchange, the Provisioner and the Provisionee shall follow these steps: 1.

When the confirmation value of the Provisioner is computed, the Provisioner shall send the Confirmation Provisioner value to the Provisionee using the Provisioning Confirmation PDU.

2.

When the Provisionee receives the Provisioning Confirmation PDU from the Provisioner, it shall compare the Confirmation Provisioner and the Confirmation Device values.

• If the values are not equal, the Provisionee shall send the Confirmation Device value to the Provisioner using the Provisioning Confirmation PDU.

If the values are equal, the provisioning protocol shall fail, and the Provisionee shall act as described in Section 5.4.4 and should indicate the Invalid Format Error Code in the Provisioning Failed PDU.

3.

When the Provisioner receives the Provisioning Confirmation PDU from the Provisionee, it shall compare the Confirmation Provisioner and the Confirmation Device values.

• If the values are not equal, the Provisioner shall send the Random Provisioner value to the Provisionee using the Provisioning Random PDU.

If the values are equal, the provisioning protocol shall fail, and the Provisioner shall act as described in Section 5.4.4.

4.

When the Provisionee receives the Provisioning Random PDU from the Provisioner, it shall compute the Confirmation Provisioner value by using the received RandomProvisioner value.

If the Confirmation Provisioner value received is equal to the computed Confirmation Provisioner, the Provisioner is authenticated, and the Provisionee shall send the Random Device value to the Provisioner using the Provisioning Random PDU.

If the Confirmation Provisioner value received is not equal to the computed Confirmation Provisioner, the provisioning protocol shall fail, and the Provisionee shall act as described in Section 5.4.4 and should indicate the Confirmation Failed Error Code in the Provisioning Failed PDU.

5.

When the Provisioner receives the Provisioning Random PDU from the Provisionee, it shall compute the Confirmation Device value by using the received Random Device value.

• If the Confirmation Device value received is equal to the computed Confirmation Device, the Provisionee is authenticated.

If the Confirmation Device value received is not equal to the computed Confirmation Device, the provisioning protocol shall fail, and the Provisioner shall act as described in Section 5.4.4.

Page 596 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification 5.4.2.4.3 Authentication with Output OOB If Output OOB authentication is used, then the Provisioning Start PDU would include a request to output either a single-digit or multiple-digit value on the Provisionee device by using a prescribed action.

Examples of output actions may include making a noise, blinking a light, voice, or displaying symbols on a display.

For example, if the unprovisioned device is a door lock that includes an LED, then it would be possible to use the Output OOB authentication with the action that would blink that LED.

When the Authentication Method field value is Authentication with Output OOB and when the Output OOB Action for the Authentication Action value is equal to Blink, Beep, or Vibrate, then the Provisionee shall select a random integer between 1 and 10 Authentication Size - 1 inclusive.

That random number shall be output as a sequence of events (e.g., by blinking, beeping, or vibrating with a duty cycle of 500 milliseconds on and 500 milliseconds off) with a gap of at least 3 seconds between sequences to allow the user to determine the end of the sequence.

When the Output OOB Action for the Authentication Action value is equal to Output Numeric, then the value is output (e.g., displayed or spoken) using a number of digits (i.e., ASCII character codes 0x30 to 0x39) determined by the Authentication Size value.

When the Output OOB Action for the Authentication Action value is equal to Output Alphanumeric, then the value is output using a number of ASCII digits and uppercase letters (i.e., ASCII character codes 0x30 to 0x39 and 0x41 to 0x5A) determined by the Authentication Size value.

The user of the Provisioner shall input the number observed to authenticate that Provisionee.

Once input of the number has been performed, a confirmation exchange followed by a random number exchange is performed (see Section 5.4.2.4.2).

The confirmation values are a cryptographic hash of all the values exchanged so far, the random number that is yet to be revealed, and the number that has been input.

Once the random numbers are exchanged, each device can authenticate its peer.

The message sequence for Authentication with Output OOB is illustrated by Figure 5.19.

Page 597 of 867 Provisioner Input Number Check Confirmation 3a: Use Output OOB Provisioning Confirmation Provisioning Confirmation Provisioning Random Mesh Protocol / Specification Provisionee Select a Random Number Output Random Number Check Confirmation Provisioning Random Figure 5.19: Authentication with Output OOB 5.4.2.4.4 Authentication with Input OOB When the Authentication Method field value is Authentication with Input OOB and when the Input OOB Action for the Authentication Action value is equal to Push, then the Provisioner shall select a random integer between 1 and 10 Authentication Size -1 inclusive.

That random number shall be input by the number of Page 598 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification push actions.

When the Input OOB Action for the Authentication Action value is equal to Twist, then the Provisioner shall select a random integer between 1 and 10 Authentication Size -1 inclusive.

That random number shall be input by the number of twist actions until the value on the control has been entered.

When the Input OOB Action for the Authentication Action value is equal to Input Numeric, the value is input by entering a number of digits (probably using a numeric keyboard) determined by the Authentication Size value.

When the Input OOB Action for the Authentication Action value is equal to Input Alphanumeric, the value is input by entering a number of ASCII digits and uppercase letters (probably using an alphanumeric keyboard) determined by the Authentication Size value.

The Provisioner shall then prompt the user to input that value into the Provisionee device by using an appropriate action.

When the Input OOB Action for the Authentication Action value is equal to Push or Twist, the value is considered to have been input after no further input actions are detected for more than 5 seconds.

When the Input OOB Action for the Authentication Action value is equal to Input Numeric or Input Alphanumeric, the value is considered to have been input locally on that device (e.g., by pressing an Enter key).

For example, the unprovisioned device is a light switch, then it would allow the user to input the random number by pressing a button an appropriate number of times.

Once input of the number has been performed, the Provisionee shall send the Provisioning Input Complete PDU to the Provisioner to confirm that the Provisionee has an input value.

A confirmation exchange followed by a random number exchange is performed (see Section 5.4.2.4.2).

The confirmation values are a cryptographic hash of all the values exchanged so far, the random number that is yet to be revealed, and the number that has been input.

Once the random numbers are exchanged, each device can authenticate its peer.

The message sequence for Authentication with Input OOB is illustrated by Figure 5.20.

Page 599 of 867 Provisioner Select a Random Number Display Random Number Check Confirmation 3b: Use Input OOB Provisioning Input Complete Provisioning Confirmation Provisioning Confirmation Provisioning Random Provisioning Random Figure 5.20: Authentication with Input OOB Mesh Protocol / Specification Provisionee Input Number Check Confirmation Page 600 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification 5.4.2.4.5 Authentication with No OOB and Authentication with Static OOB When the Authentication Method field value is Authentication with No OOB or the Authentication Method field value is Authentication with Static OOB then the Provisioner shall immediately use the confirmation and random number exchanges (see Section 5.4.2.4.2).

If a static OOB value is available, then this value shall be included as part of the confirmation value.

If no static OOB value is available, then this value shall have a value of zero.

The message sequence for Authentication with Static OOB or Authentication with No OOB is illustrated by Figure 5.21.

Provisioner Check Confirmation 3c: Use Static or No OOB Provisioning Confirmation Provisioning Confirmation Provisioning Random Provisionee Check Confirmation Provisioning Random Figure 5.21: Authentication with Static OOB or Authentication with No OOB 5.4.2.5 Distribution of provisioning data Once the Provisionee has been authenticated, the Provisioner and Provisionee shall use the calculated Diffie-Hellman shared secret ECDHSecret and generate a session key from that shared secret.

That session key shall then be used to encrypt and authenticate the provisioning data.

The Provisioner then shall send the Provisioning Data PDU containing the encrypted and authenticated provisioning data to the Provisionee.

Page 601 of 867 The provisioning data format is described in Table 5.47.

Mesh Protocol / Specification Field Size Description Req.

(octets) Network Key 16 NetKey M Key Index 2 Index of the NetKey M Flags Flags bitmask M IV Index 4 Current value of the IV Index M Unicast Address Unicast address of the primary element M Table 5.47: Provisioning data format The Network Key shall contain the NetKey.

The Key Index field shall identify the global NetKey Index of the NetKey and shall be encoded as defined in Section 4.3.1.1.

The values of the Flags field are defined in Table 5.48.

Bits 0 1 2-7 Definition Key Refresh Flag 0: Key Refresh Phase 0 1: Key Refresh Phase 2 IV Update Flag 0: Normal Operation 1: IV Update in Progress Reserved for Future Use Table 5.48: Flags field definition The IV Index field shall contain the current value of the IV Index.

The Unicast Address shall contain the Unicast Address of the primary element of the node being added to the network.

The Session key shall be derived using the formula: ProvisioningSalt-s1 (ConfirmationSalt || RandomProvisioner || RandomDevice) SessionKey=k1(ECDHSecret, ProvisioningSalt, “prsk") The nonce shall be the 13 least significant octets of: Session Nonce-k1(ECDHSecret, ProvisioningSalt, "prsn") Page 602 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification Encrypted Provisioning Data, Provisioning Data MIC=AES-CCM Ses The provisioning data shall be encrypted and authenticated using: Provisioning Data=Network Key || Key Index || Flags || IV Index || Unicast Address SessionKey (SessionNonce, Provisioning Data) The size of the Provisioning Data MIC is 8 octets.

The Encrypted Provisioning Data and Provisioning Data MIC shall be used as fields in the Provisioning Data PDU.

The Provisioner shall send the Provisioning Data PDU to the Provisionee.

The Provisionee shall then compute the device key as defined in Section 3.9.6.1.

The message sequence for distribution of provisioning data is illustrated by Figure 5.22 below.

Provisioner Calculate SessionKey 4: Distribution of Provisioning Data Provisioning Data (encrypted and authenticated) Provisioning Complete Device Provisioned Provisionee Calculate SessionKey Figure 5.22: Distribution of provisioning data The Provisioner and Provisionee calculate the device key using the k1 key derivation function based on the established Diffie-Hellman shared secret ECDHSecret.

Upon receiving the Provisioning Data PDU from the Provisioner, the Provisionee shall decrypt and authenticate the provisioning data.

Upon successful authentication of the provisioning data, the Provisionee shall set the network key (identified by the Key Index), set the IV Index, set the IV Update procedure state based on the IV Update Flag, set the Key Refresh Phase based on the Key Refresh Flag, and assign unicast addresses to all device elements starting from the primary element and using a Page 603 of 867 Mesh Protocol / Specification consecutive range of addresses starting from the provided unicast address value.

Upon successful completion of the address assigning procedure, the Provisionee shall respond with a Provisioning Complete PDU to confirm that it has been provisioned.

If the address assigning cannot be successfully completed, the Provisionee shall assume that provisioning failed and respond with a Provisioning Failed PDU with the Error Code parameter set to Cannot Assign Addresses.

Note: After processing the Provisioning Data PDU from the Provisioner, the 96-hour time limits for changing the IV Update procedure state, as defined in the IV Update procedure, do not apply.

Upon receiving the Provisioning Complete PDU from the Provisionee, the Provisioner shall assume that the provisioning process is completed successfully and the Provisionee is using a consecutive range of address starting from the value of the unicast address.

The length of the address range is reported to the Provisioner in Provisioning Capabilities PDU (see Section 5.4.1.2).

As a final step in procedure, the Provisioner shall disconnect the provisioning bearer.

The Provisionee is now a node in the mesh network.

The Provisioner shall not reuse unicast addresses that have been allocated to a Provisionee and sent in a Provisioning Data PDU unless the node to which the unicast addresses were previously assigned has been removed from the network and the current IV Index (in use during the Node Removal procedure) has been updated, as required in Section 3.11.7, or the Node Address Refresh procedure was executed and the current IV Index (in use during the Node Address Refresh procedure) has been updated, as required in Section 3.11.8.5.

5.4.2.6 Provisioning record retrieval over a provisioning bearer Provisioning records are read-only data items that the Provisioner may retrieve from the Provisionee after establishing a provisioning bearer.

The Provisioner may use the information contained within provisioning record data to manage the provisioning process.

Provisioning records are defined in Section 5.4.2.6.3.

Each provisioning record is identified by a 16-bit Record ID, which is an assigned number.

See Table 5.52 for the defined Record IDs.

5.4.2.6.1 Provisioning record list retrieval The Provisioner may retrieve the list of the Record IDs of the provisioning records stored on the Provisionee over an established provisioning bearer by sending a Provisioning Records Get PDU (see Section 5.4.1.13).

To retrieve the Record ID list, the Provisioner shall send a Provisioning Records Get PDU before it sends a Provisioning Invite PDU.

A Provisionee that supports provisioning records shall respond to a Provisioning Records Get PDU with a Provisioning Records List PDU.

The Provisioner shall not send a new PDU until it has received a Provisioning Records List PDU in response to the previously sent request.

When a Provisionee receives a Provisioning Records Get PDU, and the Provisioning Invite PDU has not already been received after the most recent establishment of a provisioning bearer, then the Provisionee shall respond with a Provisioning Records List PDU with the fields set as defined in Section 5.4.1.14.

When a Provisionee receives a Provisioning Records Get PDU, and the Provisioning Invite PDU has already been received after the most recent establishment of a provisioning bearer, this indicates that Page 604 of 867.
