. Pairing is a three-phase process. The first two phases are always used and may be followed by an optional transport specific key distribution phase (see Figure 2.1): • Phase 1: Pairing Feature Exchange • Phase 2 (LE legacy pairing): Short Term Key (STK) Generation Phase 2 (LE Secure Connections): Long Term Key (LTK) Generation Phase 3: Transport Specific Key Distribution Security Manager Security Manager Specification Initiator Established LL connection (Optional) Security_Request Pairing_Request Pairing_Response Pairing over SMP: Legacy pairing or Secure Connections Establishment of encrypted connection with key generated in phase 2 Key Distribution Key Distribution Key Distribution Responder Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Figure 2
.3. If the device receives a command with invalid parameters, it shall respond with Pairing Failed command with the error code "Invalid Parameters." Security Manager Security Manager Specification 2.3.1 Security Properties Security properties provided by SM are classified into the following categories: • LE Secure Connections pairing • Authenticated MITM protection • Unauthenticated no MITM protection • No security requirements LE Secure Connections pairing utilizes the P-256 elliptic curve. In LE legacy pairing, Authenticated man-in-the-middle (MITM) protection is obtained by using the passkey entry pairing method or may be obtained using the out of band pairing method. In LE Secure Connections pairing, Authenticated man-in-the-middle (MITM) protection is obtained by using the passkey entry pairing method or the numeric comparison method or may be obtained using the out of band pairing method
. Depending upon the key generation method and negotiated key size a responding device may have to reduce the key length (see Section 2.3.4) so that the initiator and responder are using identical keys. Security properties of the key generated in phase 2 under which the keys are distributed shall be stored in the security database. Security Manager Security Manager Specification 2.3.2 10 Capabilities Input and output capabilities of a device are combined to generate its IO capabilities. The input capabilities are described in Table 2.3. The output capabilities are described in Table 2.4. Capability No input Yes/No Keyboard Description Device does not have the ability to indicate 'yes' or 'no' Device has at least two buttons that can be easily mapped to 'yes' and 'no' or the device has a mechanism whereby the user can indicate either 'yes' or 'no' (see note below). Device has a numeric keyboard that can input the numbers '0' through '9' and a confirmation
.8: Mapping of IO Capabilities to Key Generation Method Comparison (For LE Secure Connections) Authenticated The generated key will either be an Authenticated or Unauthenticated key. If the out of band authentication method is used and the Out of Band mechanism is known to be secure from eavesdropping the key is assumed to be Authenticated; however, the exact strength depends upon the method used to transfer the out of band information. If the Out of Band method is used and the Out of Band mechanism is not secure from eavesdropping or the level of eavesdropping protection is unknown, the key shall be Unauthenticated. The mapping of IO capabilities to an authenticated or unauthenticated key is described in Table 2.8. In LE legacy pairing, if the initiating device has Out of Band data and the responding device does not have Out of Band data then the responding device may send the Pairing Failed command with the error code "OOB Not Available" instead of the Pairing Response command
.2.3) with the input parameter k set to TK, the input parameter r set to Mrand, the input parameter preq set to Pairing Request command as exchanged with the peer device (i.e. without any modifications), the input parameter pres set to the Pairing Response command as exchanged with the peer device (i.e. without any modifications), the input parameter iat set to the initiating device address type, ia set to the initiating device address, rat set to the responding device address type and ra set to the responding device address: Mconfirm = c1(TK, Mrand, Pairing Request command, Pairing Response command, initiating device address type, initiating device address, responding device address type, responding device address) Initiating and responding device addresses used for confirmation generation shall be device addresses used during connection setup, see [Vol 3] Part C, Section 9.3 The responding device generates a 128-bit random number (Srand)
. When the responding device receives Mconfirm it transmits Sconfirm to the initiating device. When the initiating device receives Sconfirm it transmits Mrand to the responding device. The responding device verifies the Mconfirm value by repeating the calculation the initiating device performed, using the Mrand value received. If the responding device's calculated Mconfirm value does not match the received Mconfirm value from the initiating device then the pairing process shall be aborted and the responding device shall send the Pairing Failed command with reason code "Confirm Value Failed". If the responding device's calculated Mconfirm value matches the received Mconfirm value from the initiating device the responding device transmits Srand to the initiating device. The initiating device verifies the received Sconfirm value by repeating the calculation the responding device performed, using the Srand value received
. The initiating device verifies the received Sconfirm value by repeating the calculation the responding device performed, using the Srand value received. If the initiating devices calculated Sconfirm value does not match the received Sconfirm value from the responding device then the pairing process shall be aborted and the initiating device shall send the Pairing Failed command with the reason code "Confirm Value Failed". If the initiating device's calculated Sconfirm value matches the received Sconfirm value from the responding device the initiating device then calculates STK and tells the Controller to enable encryption. STK is generated using the key generation function s1 defined in Section 2.2.4 with the input parameter k set to TK, the input parameter r1 set to Srand, and the input parameter r2 set to Mrand: STK = s1(TK, Srand, Mrand) If the encryption key size is less than 128 bits then the STK shall be masked to the correct key size as described in Section 2.3.4
. Select Random Nb 3b. Set rb and ra to 0 3c. Compute confirmation: Cb=f4(PKb, PKa, Nb,0) Va and Vb are 6 digit numbers to be displayed on each side, if possible. 7a. Va-g2(PKa,PKb, Na, Nb) 7b. Vb=g2(PKa, PKb, Na, Nb) Proceed if user Confirms "OK" USER checks if Va = Vb Proceed if each USER confirms 'OK' Proceed if user Confirms "OK" Figure 2.3: "Authentication Stage 1: Just Works or Numeric Comparison, LE Secure Connections After the public keys have been exchanged, each device selects a pseudorandom 128-bit nonce (step 2). This value is used to prevent replay attacks and must be freshly generated with each instantiation of the pairing protocol. This value should be generated directly from a physical source of randomness or Security Manager Security Manager Specification with a good pseudo-random generator seeded with a random value from a physical source
. When Just Works is used, the commitment checks (steps 7a and 7b) are not performed and the user is not shown the 6-digit values. When Numeric Comparison is used, assuming that the commitment check succeeds, the two devices each compute 6-digit confirmation values that are displayed to the user on their respective devices (steps 7a, 7b, and 8). The user is expected to check that these 6-digit values match and to confirm if there is a match. If there is no match, the protocol aborts and, as before, new nonces must be generated if the protocol is to be repeated. An active MITM must inject its own key material into this process to have any effect other than denial-of-service. A simple MITM attack will result in the two 6digit display values being different with probability 0.999999. A more sophisticated attack may attempt to engineer the display values to match, but this is thwarted by the commitment sequence
. But when the pairing is initiated by an OOB interface, public key exchange will happen after the OOB communication (step 1 will be between steps 4 and 5). Values of ra and rb: Since the direction of the peer's OOB interface cannot be verified before the OOB communication takes place, a device should always generate and if possible transmit through its OOB interface a random number r to the peer. Each device applies the following rules locally to set the values of its own r and the value of the peer's r: 1. Initially, r of the device is set to a random number and r of the peer is set to 0 (step 2). 2. If a device has received OOB, it sets the peer's r value to what was sent by the peer (Step 5). 3. If the remote device's OOB data flag sent in the SMP Pairing Request or SMP Pairing Response is set to "OOB Authentication data not present", it sets its own r value to 0 (Step 5) Security Manager Security Manager Specification 2.3.5.6
. A failure indicates that the responding device has not confirmed the pairing and the protocol should abort. Initiating Device A Non-initiating Device B Authentication Stage 2: LTK Calculation IOcapA is from Pairing Request IOcapB is from Pairing Response A = Device Address of A used during pairing B = Device Address of B used during pairing 9. Compute the LTK and MacKey: | MacKey || LTK = f5(DHKey, Na, Nb,A,B)| 9. Compute the LTK and MacKey: |MacKey || LTK = = f5(DHKey, Na, Nb,A,B)| 10a. Compute: Ea = f6(Mackey,Na.Nb, rb, lOcapA,A,B) 12a. Check if Eb = f6(Mackey, Nb, Na,ra, lOcapB,B,A) If check fails, abort. 10. Ea 12. Eb 10b. Compute: Eb = f6(Mackey, Nb. Na, ra, lOcapB,B,A) 11. Check if Ea = f6(Mackey, Na, Nb, rb, lOcapA, A,B) If check fails, abort. Figure 2.6: Authentication Stage 2 and Long Term Key Calculation Security Manager Security Manager Specification 2.3.5
.4 SECURITY IN BLUETOOTH LOW ENERGY Security shall be initiated by the Security Manager in the device in the master role. The device in the slave role shall be the responding device. The slave device may request the master device to initiate pairing or other security procedures, see Section 2.4.6. The slave in the key distribution phase gives keys to the master so a reconnection can be encrypted, its random addresses can be resolved, or the master device can verify signed data from the slave. The master may also provide keys to the slave device so a reconnection can be encrypted if the roles are reversed, the master's random addresses can be resolved, or the slave can verify signed data from the master. 2.4.1 Definition of Keys and Values LE security uses the following keys and values for encryption, signing, and random addressing: 1. Identity Resolving Key (IRK) is a 128-bit key used to generate and resolve random addresses. 2
. When a master device receives a Security Request command it may encrypt the link, initiate the pairing procedure, or reject the request. The slave shall not send the Security Request command if the pairing procedure is in progress, or if the encryption procedure is in progress. The Security Request command includes the required security properties. A security property of MITM protection required shall only be set if the slave's IO capabilities would allow the Passkey Entry association model to be used or out of band authentication data is available. The master shall ignore the slave's Security Request if the master has sent a Pairing Request without receiving a Pairing Response from the slave or if the master has initiated encryption mode setup. If pairing or encryption mode is not supported or cannot be initiated at the time when the slave's Security Request Command is received, then the master shall respond with a Pairing Failed Command with the reason set to "Pairing Not Supported
.3: SMP Command Codes Security Manager Protocol Security Manager Specification • Data (0 or more octets) The Data field is variable in length. The Code field determines the format of the Data field. If a device does not support pairing then it shall respond with a Pairing Failed command with the reason set to "Pairing Not Supported" (see Section 3.5.5) when any command is received. If pairing is supported then all commands shall be supported. 3.4 SMP TIMEOUT To protect the Security Manager protocol from stalling, a Security Manager Timer is used. Upon transmission of the Security Request command or reception of the Security Request command, the Security Manager Timer shall be reset and restarted. Upon transmission of the Pairing Request command or reception of the Pairing Request command, the Security Manager Timer shall be reset and started. The Security Manager Timer shall be reset when an L2CAP SMP command is queued for transmission
. 3.5.2 Pairing Response This command is used by the responding device to complete the Pairing Feature Exchange after it has received a Pairing Request command from the initiating device, if the responding device allows pairing. The Pairing Response command is defined in Figure 3.4. The rules for handing a collision between a pairing procedure on the LE transport and a pairing procedure on the BR/EDR transport are defined in [Vol 3] Part C, Section 14.2. If a Pairing Request is received over the BR/EDR transport when either crosstransport key derivation/generation is not supported or the BR/EDR transport is not encrypted using a Link Key generated using P256, a Pairing Failed shall be sent with the error code "Cross-transport Key Derivation/Generation not allowed" (0x0E). LSB MSB octet 0 octet 1 octet 2 octet 3 Code=0x02 10 Capability OOB data flag AuthReq Maximum Encryption Key Size Initiator Key Distribution Responder Key Distribution Figure 3
.3 defines the authentication requirements bit field. The Bonding_Flags field is a 2-bit field that indicates the type of bonding being requested by the responding device as defined in Table 3.6. The MITM field is a 1-bit flag that is set to one if the device is requesting MITM protection, otherwise it shall be set to 0. A device sets the MITM flag to one to request an Authenticated security property for the STK when using LE legacy pairing and the LTK when using LE Secure Connections. The SC field is a 1 bit flag. If LE Secure Connections pairing is supported by the device, then the SC field shall be set to 1, otherwise it shall be set to 0. If both devices support LE Secure Connections pairing, then LE Secure Connections pairing shall be used, otherwise LE Legacy pairing shall be used. The keypress field is a 1-bit flag that is used only in the Passkey Entry protocol and is ignored in other protocols
.3.5.5. In LE Secure Connections, Ca and Cb are defined in Section 2.2.6. 3.5.4 Pairing Random This command is used by the initiating and responding device to send the random number used to calculate the Confirm value sent in the Pairing Confirm command. The Pairing Random command is defined in Figure 3.6. The initiating device sends a Pairing Random command after it has received a Pairing Confirm command from the responding device. Security Manager Protocol Security Manager Specification In LE legacy pairing, the responding device shall send a Pairing Random command after it has received a Pairing Random command from the initiating device if the Confirm value calculated on the responding device matches the Confirm value received from the initiating device. If the calculated Confirm value does not match then the responding device shall respond with the Pairing Failed command
. If the calculated Confirm value does not match then the responding device shall respond with the Pairing Failed command. In LE Secure Connections, the responding device shall send a Pairing Random command after it has received a Pairing Random command from the initiating device. If the calculated Confirm value does not match then the responding device shall respond with the Pairing Failed command. The initiating device shall encrypt the link using the generated key (STK in LE legacy pairing or LTK in LE Secure Connections) if the Confirm value calculated on the initiating device matches the Confirm value received from the responding device. The successful encryption or re-encryption of the link is the signal to the responding device that key generation has completed successfully. If the calculated Confirm value does not match then the initiating device shall respond with the Pairing Failed command
. SignKey is a 1-bit field that is set to one to indicate that the device shall distribute CSRK using the Signing Information command. LinkKey is a 1-bit field. When SMP is running on the LE transport, the LinkKey field is set to one to indicate that the device would like to derive the Link Key from the LTK. When LinkKey is set to 1 by both devices in the initiator and responder Key Distribution / Generation fields, the procedures for calculating the BR/EDR link key from the LTK shall be used. Devices not supporting LE Secure Connections shall set this bit to zero and ignore it on reception. When SMP is running on the BR/EDR transport, the LinkKey field is reserved for future use. The Initiator Key Distribution / Generation field in the Pairing Request command is used by the master to request which keys are distributed or generated by the initiator to the responder
. The slave shall not set to one any flag in the Initiator Key Distribution / Generation or Responder Key Distribution / Generation field of the Pairing Response command that the master has set to zero in the Initiator Key Distribution / Generation and Responder Key Distribution / Generation fields of the Pairing Request command. When using LE legacy pairing, the keys shall be distributed in the following order: 1. LTK by the slave 2. EDIV and Rand by the slave 3. IRK by the slave 4. BD ADDR by the slave 5. CSRK by the slave 6. LTK by the master 7. EDIV and Rand by the master 8. IRK by the master 9. BD_ADDR by the master 10. CSRK by the master When using LE Secure Connections, the keys shall be distributed in the following order: 1. IRK by the slave 2. BD ADDR by the slave 3. CSRK by the slave 4. IRK by the master 5. BD_ADDR by the master 6. CSRK by the master If a key is not being distributed then the command to distribute that key shall not be sent